[title]: # (Troubleshooting)
[tags]: # (introduction)
[priority]: # (500)
# Troubleshooting

If the authenticated scan is failing, or isnâ€™t finding the Secret there are a
few settings to check to make sure the integration is configured correctly:

**Are web services enabled?**

Web services in Secret Server must be enabled for this integration to function.
Check the web services status from the **Configuration** section of the
**Administration** menu.

**Is Secret Server accessible?**

The URL defined when setting up the authentication vault must be accessible by
the Qualys appliance. Ensure proper DNS settings and firewall rules are in place
to allow access from the appliance to Secret Server web services.

**Are permissions and security settings configured correctly?**

The Qualys user needs at least read access to the Secret.

**Note** If certain security settings are in place, such as Approval for Access,
and Hide Launcher Password the user will need elevated access. Other settings
such as DoubleLock will prevent the Qualys account from accessing the Secret. If
a Secret is configured for Check Out, Secret Server will automatically check out
the Secret to the Qualys user.

**Check audit trails**

To help determine whether the Qualys account is correctly accessing Secret
Server and the stored credential, check the audit on the Qualys user to see if
it is logging in successfully from the appliance and view the audit on the
Secret to see if there are view records which will show that the Secret was
actually accessed.

**BEST PRACTICES**

**Folders**

Permissions in Secret Server are similar to NTFS, and are assigned at the Secret
or folder level. To make maintenance simple going forward, a standard model is
to place all the credentials needed for scanning in a separate folder that the
security team can manage. Give the Qualys Secret Server account read-only access
to the folder and it will automatically gain access to new credentials added to
the folder for scanning. In the example screenshots in this guide, the scanadmin
Secret is placed in the Scan Credentials folder, which an admin and the Qualys
user account have access to.

**Groups**

If there are multiple authentication vaults set up in Qualys with separate user
accounts for accessing Secret Server, it is recommended to assign all of them to
a local Secret Server group to simplify permission management moving forward.

**SSL**

Ensure that Secret Server is configured to force connections over HTTPS. This
can be verified by clicking the **Security Hardening** tab from the **Reports**
section of Secret Server.

**IP Address Restrictions**

Secret Server allows whitelisting of IP address ranges to restrict where
accounts can log in from. For the Qualys Secret Server account, it is
recommended to only allow it access from the Qualys agent appliance to help
prevent misuse of the account.

**Event Subscriptions / SIEM**

Configure email or SIEM alerts to get notified if the Qualys account gets locked
out of fails to login to the vault. This can indicate the password was updated
in Active Directory or Secret Server without updating the Qualys Authentication
Vault record. For more information on alerts refer to the user guide and the
syslog integration guide.
