[title]: # (Rapid7)
[tags]: # (introduction)
[priority]: # (1)
# Introduction

The integration between Thycotic Secret Server and Rapid7 is created and maintained by Rapid7. This document provides guidance and best practice for implementing the integration. It is based on the following publicly available documentation from the vendor and testing performed by Thycotic. Integrations are supported to the extent of the third-party product procedures documented for this integration. Please contact the third-party for any customized setup of the integrated product.

Nexpose and InsightVM
---------------------

Nexpose and InsightVM are assessment solutions for your physical, virtual,
mobile, and cloud environments. Their dynamic discovery integrates with your
existing infrastructure to find any security gaps. Thycotic's industry-leading
integration with Rapid7 Nexpose provides a revolutionary way to scan and
mitigate risk in virtual networks.

Thycotic Secret Server (SS) is an on-premises Web-based password vault used
throughout the world to help organizations properly manage privileged account
passwords. SS allows users to control access and automate password changes for a
variety of enterprise resources, such as servers, databases, network devices,
and applications. SS features auditing throughout the application and role-based
access control (RBAC) on all its information and features. Organizations can
easily deploy SS to ensure security, reduce labor costs, adopt password best
practices, and satisfy audit requirements.

Thycotic
--------

Thycotic IT security and password management solutions empower companies to
remove the complexities of proper access control and management of privileged
accounts. An Inc. 5000 company, Thycotic is trusted by more than 3,000
organizations worldwide—including Fortune 500 members, enterprises, government
agencies, technology firms, universities, non-profits and managed service
providers. To learn more, please visit [thycotic.com](http://www.thycotic.com/).

Rapid7
------

Rapid7 cyber security analytics software and services reduce threat exposure and
detect compromise for 3,900 organizations across 90 countries, including 30% of
the Fortune 1000. They help manage risk, stop attacks faster, and systematically
advance your security program with comprehensive real-time data collection,
advanced correlation, and insight into attacker techniques. With their
innovative technology and trusted expertise, they prepare you for everything
from drive-by download attacks to advanced threats, from the endpoint to the
cloud.